Apache Kafka is a distributed publishisubscribe messaging system.
Messaging traditionally has 2 models.
1.queueing and publish-subscribe
Kafka is fact, scalable, durable, fault-tolerant and distributed by design.

Kafka Terminologies.
1.Producer
2.Consumer
3.Partition
4.Broker
5.Topic
6.Zookeeper 

1.Producer
A Producer can be any application who can publish meesages to a topic.

2.Consumer
A Consumer can be any application that subscribes to one topic and consume messages from that topic.

3.Partition
Topics are broken up into ordered commit logs called partitions

4.Broker
Kafka cluster is a set of servers, each of which is called a broker.

5.Topic 
A Topic is a category or feed name to which records are published

6.ZooKeeper
Zookeeper is used for managing and coordinating Kafka broker.
 


Kafka competitors:
AMQP(Advanced Message queue protocol).
RabbitMQ(Asynchronous Message queue).
JMS Queue.
Amazon Kinesis(High volume)(streams,firehorse,analytics).
Active MQ.
IBM MQ
Microsoft MQ.

Kafka Advantages:
Scalable, Reliable, Performance, Durable, Security(SSL,SASL)

Kafka Usecases:
Messaging system
Storage system
Stream processing

Imp Points:
Once data is written to Topic, data cannot be modified(data is immutable).
While publishing the data to topic, data is assigned randomly to the partitions, until and unless a key is provided.
 Kafka server is a bootstrap server

Replication Factor:
It is like fault tolerance.
It should be always greater than 1.

Leader For Partition:
It is like boss of all partition. i.e first data comes to the partition that we make it as Leader.
ISR(Insync replication).
If in case Leader partition goes down then replica ISR will be given broker. once it is back then previous partition gets the Leader back

Zookeepr manages all broker servers.

To start Zookeeper server
.\bin\windows\zookeeper-server-start.bat .\config\zookeeper.properties

To start Kafka server
.\bin\windows\kafka-server-start.bat .\config\server.properties

To Create a Topic
.\bin\windows\kafka-topics.bat --create --zookeeper localhost:2181 --replication-factor 1 --partitions 1 --topic TestTopic

To Check List of topics 
.\bin\windows\kafka-topics.bat --list --zookeeper localhost:2181

To start Kafka producer
.\bin\windows\kafka-console-producer.bat --broker-list localhost:9092 --topic TestTopic

To start Kafka consumer
.\bin\windows\kafka-console-consumer.bat --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --topic TestTopic --from-begining
